look it's easy to find fault with their
methods but the French yellow vest
protests are nevertheless one of the
most important political movements in
your lifetime or mine
like it or not this is one of the most
important political movements of the
21st century and not just for France for
the United States for Canada for China
for India for the whole world these
protests are asking a question that
makes many people in elite levels of
politics uncomfortable all around the
world they're asking the question why
can't the people of France have direct
democracy why do the people of France
have to rely on electing members of
parliament and then many years later
approving or disapproving of the job
those people in Pramod do why can't the
people of France directly initiate new
legislation and repeal legislation
through the ballot box why is it that
democracy has just become this
plebiscite on leadership that really
people have no control and no influence
over and really there's no
accountability for people in power once
they are elected aside from the end of
the next election cycle when they might
or might not lose their jobs it's a very
simple question and I notice that in the
Western press whether it's the French
the German the American they tend to
focus on every other issue raised by the
yellow vests except this one and I think
they do that because they don't have an
answer for it I've never heard a manual
Mike Hall himself say why it is that he
opposes the idea of direct democracy an
idea that actually the French people
have guaranteed to them in their
constitution the problem is this is
guaranteed to them a little bit too
vaguely and now the question is can they
make that principle less vague can they
in the 21st century start to Ana
meaningful meaningful sentence have an
Exercise direct democracy and that's a
question I think we know the masses
should be asking in Canada they should
be
in the united states and we're not we
don't have a protest movement like the
yellow vests demanding direct democracy
in communist china they don't have a
protest movement demanding democracy and
they should and we should and we should
also study and learn from the example of
other countries around the world that
already have this type of direct
democracy the two i really know of our
switzerland and far-off exotic taiwan
I'm living in Taiwan right now okay so
didn't know so the title and topic of
this video is what does the Chinese
government say about france's yellow
vests there's a lot to be learned by
considering the perspective of one
country examining another country's
political problems I think in the
Western world we don't do enough of it
we have pages and pages of every
magazine and newspaper devoted to the
American perspective on the war in
Afghanistan and you very rarely hear a
peep about what does India think what
does Pakistan think what does China
think whether you're talking about the
government of China or the newspapers in
China or you know the average man on the
street in India those are all countries
that have their own involvement their
own perspective that really matters and
that might reveal to you problems of
perception and misperception
misapprehension false assumptions in the
American approach to the Afghan problem
and of course there's ultimately
Afghanistan's own perspective so in this
case we're asking what does the Chinese
government say about Frances yellow fest
that's a very interesting perspective
because in theory the government of
China feels that it represents both
communism and democracy and in practice
of course now it's it's very dubious
whether they whether they represent
another one I think for many of you this
is a question you probably haven't asked
yourself before before clicking from
this video so let's just entertain a few
hypothetical possibilities to reflect on
what the answer might be before I tell
you what the answer actually is
possibility number one
maybe China would say quote we
completely support France going through
this difficult period of transition this
would be a diplomatic and sympathetic
answer basically pro French and
pro-establishment possibility number two
what if instead China in some sense
supports the protesters perhaps seeing
them as the working class or the poor
perhaps sympathizing with their
discontent against Western capitalist
elitism possibility number three perhaps
China would resolve a classical Marxist
narrative and say see that's what you
get for oppressing the poor with your
so-called democracy perhaps they want to
pretend that the Communists have all the
answers and not the capitalists like
Mike hall that'd be a little bit more of
an old-school Cold War approach but what
absolutely nobody is going to mention is
this when you see these signs in these
slogans with Ric in the crowds at the
ill-effects protests this is the demand
for direct democracy and I've seen a
great deal of shameful coverage from the
West it's not just a problem in terms of
the Chinese perception and misperception
issue that seems to me to intentionally
blot out all of the really meaningful
important questions raised by the
protests most of all the problem of
direct democracy quote in a list of
demands released in late November the
yellow vests ask that any policy
proposal garnering seven hundred
thousand signatures trigger a national
referendum to be held within a year the
RIC is one item on a list of 42 measures
being demanded by the let yellow vests
you will see those 42 demands mentioned
incredibly rarely in the Western press
let alone the Chinese press us and say
and even if they are mentioned you will
almost never see them discussed in
detail I guess I can say I have
literally never seen them discussed in
detail and even googling specifically
for the list of 42 it's quite difficult
to get them in English or in French to
get the full list you might think the
journalists would be devoting their time
to an analysis of what these demands
were their applications but no for the
most part this is being swept under the
rug
perhaps because consciously or
unconsciously people are uncomfortable
dealing with this list and they're more
comfortable dealing with the sort of
simplified stereotype notion that the
people in yellow vests just want lower
taxes an RIC system already exists in
some countries notably Switzerland where
voters are regularly called upon to vote
on policies Italy's Constitution calls
for a vote to be held in if a proposal
gets 500,000 signatures or is backed by
at least five original councils so in
theory the people of France should have
something like this guaranteed to them
under the Constitution but the
Constitution is a little bit vague
article 3 of the current French
Constitution says national sovereignty
belongs to the people who exercise it
through the representatives and by way
of referendum now on the left you have a
short quotation which is suggesting to
you that you interpret this very brief
statement in the spirit of the earlier
constitution of 1791 and in terms of the
philosophy of jean-jacques Rousseau that
really this this ought to have a little
bit more weight and substance and depth
than at first glance it might have and
it's not just a small group of violent
protesters on the streets who support
this idea of direct democracy 80% of
respondents 80% of the people polled in
France say that they support this type
of referendum to propose a law 72% say
they'd supported to repeal a law 63
percent say they'd supported to end the
term of office of an elected official so
this is actually a popular mainstream
political concern in France in addition
to being something guaranteed to them in
the Constitution if you are watching
this video in Canada please ask yourself
why not us - do you think the people of
France have a higher level of education
a higher level of erudition do you think
the French are somehow more democratic
than we are that they care about this
and they're demanding it and we aren't I
think for Canadians for Americans
probably for Argentina
and many other people's around the world
there's a real challenge here I mean yes
it's a challenge to elites who are
already in political power it may make
them uncomfortable to think about this
greater broader form of grassroots
political participation that could be
made possible through this type of legal
change but it's also a challenge for us
it's the challenge for the people who
are sitting and watching TV world say
well we've gotten really used to
complaining about politics but we
haven't really stood up and demanded to
participate not in this way not in the
way that France already is is showing us
to do and this is not such inch in
history this is not just an issue that
has raised in 1791 or in the philosopher
jean-jacques Rousseau or even in the
French Constitution following after
World War two this was all debated
delineated and legislated on again back
in 2008 which is not such ancient
history and that again set down this
broad and vague principle that the
people of France ought to have direct
democracy of some kind but it's remained
a little bit too vague so what does the
Chinese government say about Frances
yellow vests and I've already told you
they are not going to be dealing with
the most fundamental and important
question which is of direct democracy
the source I'm working from here is
called Choshu now
Choza is a much more powerful statement
of what the policy of the government of
China is and of what the people of China
ought to think and ought to believe than
any source you can quote from the
American system of government if in
American politics you quote Donald Trump
you're just quoting what Donald Trump
thinks if you quote what the leader or
the Republican Party says you're just
quoting what a handful of people think
you're not even really quoting some that
represents the Republican Party Shousha
is a very carefully written very
carefully edited and controlled
Communist Party of China organ and I
would say that its main purpose is to
instruct people within the Chinese
government about how they ought to act
they ought to believe what they ought to
say and how they ought to say it title
looking at France and shambles
what should the Chinese people think
even the title of this article affirms
would have just told you that Shousha is
really written to be a model of what the
Chinese people ought to think and
believe how people within Chinese
government ought to act as I think it is
mostly read by Communist Party officials
themselves members of the Chinese
government so when you look at France in
its current political state what should
the Chinese people think many countries
in Europe need quote unquote deep
reforms to revive their economy oh
that's a little bit painfully vacant
countries in Europe need deeper forms to
revive their economies but they weren't
able to do so because the European
system of democracy is so polarizing
so right off the bat
they're trying to portray the political
problems in France as if they're merely
economic I think because the economy is
safe to talk about and it might be
dangerous for a communist party official
writing this article and of course the
article would have been edited and
censored numerous times we're going to
press would have been discussed in
committee what the party message is here
but it's certainly safe to suggest that
the problem is the French economy and
that they need economic reforms rather
than saying the problem is participation
and representation in their system of
democracy which would raise much more
comfortable questions for China this is
an occasion for China to boast about
their own supposed economic vitality but
contrast and yes they've basically gone
with a blaming democracy tactic here we
continue president Mac Hall tried his
best with various reforms skipping over
some of the details here but increasing
the fuel tax was the straw that broke
the camel's back and he became despised
as the president of the rich or the
president for the rich etc so you might
think that would be a topic the
Communist Party would want to spend a
little bit more time on but no see the
direction that going
they're putting more blame on European
democracy itself quote they're powerless
to handle the problems because of the
divisiveness that has become natural
under the democratic system so the
argument here is that France has
economic problems and that they're
powerless to solve those economic
problems because of the divisive and
polarizing nature of democracy and this
is of course a kind of humble brag for
China as if to say China's economy is so
wonderful because they don't have this
divisiveness they don't have this
problem of democracy in their society
the article that offers a positive
contrast here in China ten retired
soldiers dared to have a public protest
and it was quote-unquote controlled
immediately the article proceeds to ask
who is better able to handle these
problems these social problems and
maintain stability China or the West now
I had not heard of this protest
allegedly involving just ten retired
soldiers as soon as I googled it yeah
you can guess these were a set of
protests that were much much larger than
just ten men around the 5th of October
hundreds of retired veterans of the
People's Liberation Army gathered from
various parts of China to protest and
ask the authorities to apologize yeah
for the poor treatment of veterans long
story short these protests were
tolerated for some period of time and
then there was a brutal crackdown on
them about ten men were persecuted as
being ringleaders or so quote-unquote
criminals but again this just says
hundreds of people gathered these
protests we don't know how many it was
not a group of nearly ten men retired
from the military so you can read more
about that if you want to I think that
wasn't covered in the Western press but
this is being suggested that when China
has public protests and demands for
democracy like the yellow vests look how
well trying to handle it because China
doesn't have this problem with democracy
just throw everyone in prison it's no
problem but you know with with
absolutely no humor absolute deadpan
serious
China's response this is to say again
firstly they suggest that Frances real
problem is economic rather than
political cultural or otherwise they do
not suggest that the problem is the
relationship between the rich and the
poor between the elites and the masses
between the rulers and the rule ruled no
no no no that it's economic but they
can't carry out the deeper forms because
of the divisive and competitive nature
of democracy and then democracy is a
problem also because it prevents the
army from just straight-up brutalizing
anyone who dares to complain I wish this
were comedy but it's not it's deadly
serious and the lives of a billion
people hang in the balance so coming to
the conclusion of this article although
France may seem to have more freedom on
a shallow level of analysis French
society really lacks the type of unity
necessary to get things done China by
contrast has unity and quote unquote is
good at doing big things close quote
but doesn't have enough of vitality or
flexibility so there is a little bit of
sincere self-criticism here in this part
of the article if you're reading it in
the original Chinese it is not just
boasting about the greatness of China
however from my perspective
ever since the year 2007 or 2008 a large
part of the sense of pride and purpose
of the Chinese government and the
Chinese people has indeed been this idea
that they're good at doing big things
what do they mean by that they mean that
they managed to build a speed train this
train connecting Tibet to Beijing
ultimately connecting Tibet to the rest
of China they mean that they very
rapidly built a space program and put a
man into orbit and then the astronaut
returned and they all cheered they mean
that they they hosted the Olympics that
they build huge hospitals huge roads
huge trains this is their idea of big
things but the sobering reality is you
know yes
they built a health care system but
nobody trusts it and the Chinese people
pay a lot of money to try to run away
and get health care in Taiwan in
Thailand in the United States of America
the Chinese people save
and spend a lot of money to send their
children to study at universities in all
of these countries but again Europe in
America the desperation of the Chinese
people to rely on institutions outside
of China is reflects how desperately
unhappy they are
how mistrustful they are towards this
government that accomplishes so many so
many so-called big things that's
reflected also in this little headline
we've had lately explaining China's low
and falling ranking on the UN world
happiness report residents of more than
150 countries were asked how satisfied
they are with their lives
China ranked 86th out of the 156
countries down seven places from the
previous year as The Economist magazine
noted this place China below Russia and
even below war-torn Libya the people of
Libya are happier at least according to
this report this attempt of social
scientists to measure happiness the
people of Libya are happier with their
lives than the people of China there is
indeed a great deal of discontent
amongst the people of China and that
discontent is overwhelmingly directed
towards the government precisely because
they know the government dominates their
lives dominates and controls the economy
it creates and controls to eat
conditions that make them so unhappy
there are also the conditions that
provide them with of course the the
opportunities that they do enjoy in life
but I understand very well the pride the
Chinese take in quote unquote
doing big things but let me tell you
something in the space of two years I
went to the South of France four times
and if anyone is doing an honest
assessment of which country is better at
doing big things China or France
I've lived in both during the same
period of time I was living in China and
flying back and forth to France my life
has really involved both countries there
is absolutely no doubt in my mind that
it is in fact France that is much better
at doing big things its France that has
built a railway network that really
works
it's France that has built a healthcare
system and it
ocation system even an economy that
really works although that may not be
obvious at first glance it's a very
unequal comparison but this article is
dodging the real question which is of
these two countries who has built a
democracy that really works and let's
face it we're not talking about a
democracy that works well for the
wealthiest 10% of people we're probably
talking about a democracy that works
well for the poorest 40% in China
there's absolutely no doubt they have a
social system that works very well for
the elite some people have gotten rich
off of Chinese communism and it does not
work well at all
for the bottom 40% does France have a
democracy that works well for the 40% at
the bottom these protests are asking
that question and in the 21st century
it's not just France it's the whole
world that's gonna have to start coming
up with some new answers including as
never before
direct democracy so these are their
conclusions jaha has unity and is good
at doing big things but does not have
the vitality or flexibility of some of
these democratic societies and I have a
few notes there on screen just drawing
our attention to the peculiarity of the
Chinese wording this again tends to lean
towards an economic analysis because
economics is safer to discuss in 21st
century China and then this is the most
bizarre commentary on the state of
France and the yellow vests of all here
published in the same pages of Choshu
magazine very much as I say an official
government declaration they published a
poem they published a poem on the chaos
gripping the Western world they talk
about how France is in ruins
France is in a state of chaos because of
the yellow vest protests they talk about
how poorly the United States is
struggling under the leadership of
Donald Trump it's a whole series of
complaints about how awful things are
for us in Western democracy
whereas yes you guessed it home life in
China
supposedly absolutely wonderful so again
we can contrast that to the fact that
guess what guys you can kid yourself but
there are a lot of really grave warnings
that life in Communist China is not so
wonderful for the vast majority of
people I don't hear anyone claiming that
life in Libya is so wonderful compared
to China but nevertheless they're doing
better than you want a survey of who's
happy and who's not what absolutely
nobody is going to mention is this the
French yellow vests protesters are
raising one of the most fundamental
important questions of our time and that
is the question of direct democracy
democracy is not something that your
superiors can give you you and we have
to stand up and take it
[Music]